---  
layout: review  
title: "Begin Again (2013)"  
date: 2014-08-31  
tags:movrev  
---  
  
#TAGS:  
fresh perspective  
cliché message  
layered meaning (good for over-thinking/multiple viewing)  
  
immersive atmosphere  
  
expected outcome  
acceptable suspense (developments predicted minutes before)  
  
untraceable (natural) acting  
noticeable acting  
  
#COMMENTS:  
  
the plot device used for the beginning sequence is not terrible for my taste... the outcome is rather evident but the director (etc.) still decided to show me repeated footage to "overlap" the storyline (I guess the problem is that I personally do not find the music in this film too appealing at all [just range from alright to not my type] and therefore the repeat with added effects by Dan really didn't make the song that much better). Also gretta's acting/facial expression is really wierd especially the second time around when the imaginative instruments were added.  
  
the character dynamic is good => second half is rather enjoyable. the "you don't understand me/situation at all" " now I'm mad, walking away" " but let's talk at a quiet place with nice view" is a bit too classic. luckily the hug made the sequence stood out against cliche.  
  
the sexual tension between Dan and Gretta is all too real and kinda good.  
  
overall it's mildly better than chef for it is a bit more serious and believable (in that not much did luck do other than the premise), and as another imdber said it's less self-conscious) .  
  
I just did not enjoy the soundtrack enough. sad. I mean the background modern synphony is ok. but a bit rushy. I guess I just don't like human voice as much as music.  
  
  
  
  
  
#TAG SCORE: **8**{: style:"color:yellow; font-size:50px;"}  
