---  
layout: review  
title: "喜剧之王 (1999)"  
date: 2014-12-22  
---  
  
#TAGS:  
silly humor  
discremenating humor  
physical comedy  
funny  
fucking hilarious  
stupid  
  
secrets of life  
thought provoking thinking  
empathy and sympathy  
  
fresh perspective  
layered meaning (good for over-thinking/multiple viewing)  
  
excellent camera work  
immersive atmosphere  
fitting soundtrack  
  
expected outcome  
unacceptable suspense (developments predicted too early)  
acceptable suspense (developments predicted minutes before)  
realistic effects  
  
untraceable (natural) acting  
dramatic acting  
  
#COMMENTS:  
  
it's probably the film where 周 performed his best. I think it self-cannibalizes a bit between the absurdist's comedy and story-telling. e.g. I believe showing the jump hug was a bit too close to the emotional scene at the beach as I was just about to reach my feels and that ruined it. also the lack of shock at the end of the shoot out is a bit anti-climatic.  
But most of the comedy works very well with the semi-tragic story e.g the naked five year old walking around out of nowhere is hilariously appropriate (in that era). and the soap opera you can't marry cause you are blood siblings was an awesome transition, yet I think the grand happy ending pretty much demolished the entire point of the plot. it might be better if the big star did not got on stage/drew a big crowd, but was seating down a smaller audience. idk. it's hard to make comedy work with real stories. you need weird plots like shaolin soccer / kung fu.  
  
  
  
  
  
#TAG SCORE: 25  
