---  
layout: review  
title: "La Haine (1995)"  
date: 2014-08-31  
tags:movrev  
---  
  
#TAGS:  
silly humor  
discremenating humor  
physical comedy  
funny  
fucking hilarious  
stupid  
  
informative  
inspiring  
uplifting  
incorrect physics/sciences/engr  
secrets of life  
memorable quotes  
thought provoking thinking  
emotional resonance  
empathy and sympathy  
  
fresh perspective  
this is pointless (either I can't find a point or I disagree whole-heartedly)  
did not get it  
cliché message  
layered meaning (good for over-thinking/multiple viewing)  
multiple good interpretations  
  
excellent camera work  
immersive atmosphere  
ethereal cinematography  
beautiful scenes  
transcendent use of color and/or shadow  
fitting soundtrack  
  
acceptable suspense (developments predicted minutes before)  
  
intense action  
  
untraceable (natural) acting  
  
#COMMENTS:  
  
well after watching this, Fruitvale station's copying in plot arrangement is quite evident. but that film lacks the philosophical depth and growth La Haine touched on. the struggle here is less everyday but more intense and mentally stressing.  
  
Fruitvale could well be a fictional prequel to La Haine - i.e. Abdel could be oscar grant  
  
the expression of the new cop during the torture scene shows exactly the same struggle 鲁迅 pointed out. forget to live with your own inaction and inability, remember to be responsible and fight back. on the one hand you know it's wrong and uneasy and disgusting, on the other what should/could you do? ultimately one person cannot change the whole world instantly. the struggle has to be slow and long and sad.  
  
the russian guy's bathroom story is quite intriguing. from what I gathered it is essentially 鱼与熊掌不可兼得 with a twist that here the surviving solution requires some form of shameless and the train of life never waits for you specifically. some random guy on internet said that this also implies a change in attitude (stop being "shy" when taking a dump on the way to the fucking siberian labor camp [wait is that a metaphor saying life is just going straight to hell]) is required to "fix" the social problems they face. I suppose in a sense racism is a form of pride combined with lazyness - you want to be superior without doing extra. I suppose it presents a dilenma for the minorities that for them "pride ([asking for] equality)" and "success (out of the projects/getto, financial/social/safety gain)" don't come together.  
  
  
  
  
  
#TAG SCORE: **46**{: style:"color:yellow; font-size:50px;"}  
