---  
layout: review  
title: "Big Hero 6 (2014)"  
date: 2014-12-31  
---  
  
#TAGS:  
silly humor  
physical comedy  
funny  
  
empathy and sympathy  
  
fresh perspective  
cliché message  
  
immersive atmosphere  
beautiful scenes  
  
expected outcome  
unacceptable suspense (developments predicted too early)  
acceptable suspense (developments predicted minutes before)  
intense action  
realistic effects  
  
#COMMENTS:  
  
overall could've been a 7 if the story is more sane and 8 if it's more moving. it took a turn for the worst once the villain's identity is revealed. (however, I do agree that the business man should not be the villain in that he is a fucking capitalist! they work for the cash and power and doing some crazy underground murderous spree is retarded.) I mean they got an at-risk child handling grief better than a full on genius professor. wtf. And what is the point of the fire? pure BS accident? he got the chance to work with hero and his brother so he could totally get a copy of micro-bot without any fuss.  
And I was screaming just keep the fucking chips when baymax was having that cheesy unthinkable goodbye scene. He's a robot! why do you have to be that depressed? just accept the fact that you need to redo a lot work but you can always build a second if there's a first. probably better anyway.  
the sci-fi in this film is pretty reasonable other than the teleportation wormhole bs and complete ignorance on power (micro-bot) and control (voice activated flight guidance? what a disaster).  
Finally lands a solid 6 for the cuteness in general and in particular the butterfly scene, san fransokyo golden gate bridge with 神道 influences...  
  
  
  
  
  
  
#TAG SCORE: **5**{: style:"color:yellow; font-size:50px;"}  
