---  
layout: review  
title: "the guest (2014)"  
date: 2015-01-01  
---  
  
#TAGS:  
stupid  
  
fresh perspective  
this is pointless (either I can't find a point or I disagree whole-heartedly)  
did not get it  
  
immersive atmosphere  
  
expected outcome  
unacceptable suspense (developments predicted too early)  
acceptable suspense (developments predicted minutes before)  
exceptional suspense (developments not predicted)  
  
intense action  
realistic effects  
  
untraceable (natural) acting  
noticeable acting  
  
#COMMENTS:  
  
this should indeed bare the title of cheap thrill. predictable, everyone other than complete bystanders (e.g. diners, other waitress, detention teacher) totally deserved it (esp. the family other than the girl for not trusting family first).  
Also wtf is the point again? those extra action film flick type violence seems rather unnecessary at keeping his identity a secret. just do it like what happened at the very end with fireman. you can escape easily and no one's going to be able to find you! what kind of neurological programming is that... very shitty even for a super-secret agent cause there is no off switch. And agent should always work to minimize impact; getting yourself on 8 o'clock cable news does not cover your track. Esp. since nobody knows his next step/plan hiding place anyway and no amount of killing can undo the fact that military was notified.  
 "oscillating between serious / funny / totally random." precisely. so you can claim this is parody. It's completely ambiguous  
 by the way I think the boy is also a real psychopath. (and from the looks of it many retarded viewers on the forum are just like him) what do you mean you don't care that he killed your dad's boss? he maybe an asshole (with a college degree albeit) but he did nothing that deserves sudden death. there are times that I think only a true high-functioning socio-path can be truly fair and take on justice since no shit woulde be given for "charm" or "emotion"  
  
  
  
  
  
#TAG SCORE: **-2**{: style:"color:yellow; font-size:50px;"}  
