---  
layout: review  
title: "Birdman (2014)"  
date: 2015-01-07  
---  
  
#TAGS:  
silly humor  
discremenating humor  
physical comedy  
  
secrets of life  
memorable quotes  
thought provoking thinking  
empathy and sympathy  
  
fresh perspective  
cliché message  
layered meaning (good for over-thinking/multiple viewing)  
  
excellent camera work  
immersive atmosphere  
beautiful scenes  
fitting soundtrack  
  
unexpected outcome  
acceptable suspense (developments predicted minutes before)  
exceptional suspense (developments not predicted)  
  
intense action  
realistic effects  
  
untraceable (natural) acting  
dramatic acting  
  
#COMMENTS:  
  
This picture is awesome even just for its technical achievements. Really sells the omnipotent 3rd person viewpoint. Although some times it is self-evident where takes were cut, the transitions are pretty excellent in general.  
  
But this really should not be put in the comedy genre... humorous maybe, satirical yes, but a tragedy it is (other than its title for taking a shot at batman)  
  
The only less than satisfactory part was the ending. It gives such a sense of unfulfilled-ness and uncertainty that really make this film more of a 衰世之说 (descriptive not prescriptive). However that is not to say that I know of a way to make it better, as it does help the film in presenting the theme that the desire to transcend beyond corporeal existence drive us into a superficial struggle destined for many disappointments.  
  
And I believe that anyone unable to appreciate this message have probably yet to experience their identity crisis.  
  
####Quotes:  
  
what did you want? To call myself beloved, to feel myself beloved on the earth.  
  
Is this real, or are you shooting a film? You people are full of Shit!  
  
  
  
  
  
#TAG SCORE: **32**{: style:"color:yellow; font-size:50px;"}  
