---  
layout: review  
title: "Filth (2013)"  
date: 2015-01-06  
---  
  
#TAGS:  
discremenating humor  
  
emotional resonance  
empathy and sympathy  
  
fresh perspective  
layered meaning (good for over-thinking/multiple viewing)  
  
excellent camera work  
  
expected outcome  
acceptable suspense (developments predicted minutes before)  
  
intense action  
realistic effects  
  
untraceable (natural) acting  
dramatic acting  
  
overdone sexiness (horny)  
  
#COMMENTS:  
  
Survived watching it the 2nd time. first time I rage quit around 30 mins in.  
  
The film pretty much took a dive from disgusting into shear sadness as we get to know him better. Especially when the mother found Bruce at station, a moment of deep self-loathing from Bruce (almost) shaked me down completely ... that was some on-point acting job.  
  
the wife in costume/langerie is really ugly, for a good reason. Pretty good foreshadowing that I should've pick up as earlier.  
  
"if you want to talk i'm here." buhahahahaha... Rick & Morty  
  
i thought "she" killed the victim along -- aparently that is how it is in the book but they chickened out.  
  
This hint of redemption shown by the end is an interesting alternative to the original violence in the book. However I personally prefer the latter as it just works with the previous storyline better...  
  
To elaborate, Bruce seems way too servere to be just bipolar (indicated by lithium prescription in film). maybe it was a misdiagnoisis by the doctor as he showed more controlled behavior there? He seems to suffer from borderline personality disorder resulted from abondoment of his wife. and having him kill the main victim (who is black in the book) is much more reasonable as his wife left to live with a black man.  
  
  
  
  
  
#TAG SCORE: **19**{: style:"color:yellow; font-size:50px;"}  
