---  
layout: review  
title: "foxcatcher (2014)"  
date: 2015-01-03  
---  
  
#TAGS:  
  
empathy and sympathy  
  
fresh perspective  
  
immersive atmosphere  
  
unexpected outcome  
unacceptable suspense (developments predicted too early)  
acceptable suspense (developments predicted minutes before)  
exceptional suspense (developments not predicted)  
intricate storyline (what the fuck just happened? have to read elsewhere or re-watch)  
some characters lacking development  
  
untraceable (natural) acting  
  
#COMMENTS:  
  
great performance (acting). bullshit story. very far from the real story and unbelievable. the film makes du pont look actually insane for the murder since I could not see any underlying motive other than a weird sense of jealousy with dave and mark's closeness on the farm and during matches (which is mostly fiction) and there was no physical trigger.  
 watching the actual interview footage of du pont, steve carell overplayed the character by an inch. (maybe du pont behaved way worse off camera, but he seems much more like a normal secluded rich guy on tape)  
 and watching dave's wife's interview in st. louis, it does gave me an impression that she is as cold as portrayed in film.  
"facts" provided by mark tells a much more realistic story than the film. the film makers decided to include this artificial dynamic mark without good transitions. he essentially turned hostile to du pont instantly after the ape slap irrespective of du pont's make up attempts. it's really not that bad of an insult to make a person u-turn in affection! the true story is that mark never liked du pont much and they were never close. furthermore, du pont got to know dave way earlier and in fact have a reasonable relationship independent of mark. and dave telling du pont about his plan to leave for coaching at stanford really is a much more reasonable trigger. with the potential end of the friendship between dave and du pont, I can see a plausible homicide from a lonely mad rich man. essentially the film flipped dave and mark without switching the murder victim.  
  
  
  
  
  
#TAG SCORE: **5**{: style:"color:yellow; font-size:50px;"}  
