---  
layout: review  
title: "Interstellar (2014)"  
date: 2015-01-21  
---  
  
#TAGS:  
  
fresh perspective  
cliché message  
  
immersive atmosphere  
beautiful scenes  
  
expected outcome  
  
intense action  
realistic effects  
epic effects  
  
#COMMENTS:  
never underestimate the power of hollywood... of turning anything into an action flick where love saves us all.  
  
a 3 dimensional hole... is not a sphere. interior of sphere is 2 dimensional hole. (although it also contains a 3 dimensional hole).  
  
why in the hell would you save fuel by aerobraking when time was your major concern?  
  
"...love is the only thing we know that transcends time and space..." does it? I really don't think so. as we know the chemistry usually wear out in 2 years time and long distance relationships are hard to maintain.  
  
I think it is safe to say that it is not safe to have authorization issues with auto-docking controller... it's a pretty hard job without training and Mann should know better (although it really is not THAT difficult if he went through the proper training). Also pretty sure repeatedly telling a cowardly defector "do not attempt to open inner hatch" is not as effective as telling him you have an imperfect dock and further action might kill you.  
  
my god that was a hopelessly annoying museum. stop talking at the same time!  
  
"the idea that we are capable of saving ourselves is very powerful" (per supporters that think this is a crucial positive message) No that is just arrogance.   
  
the reuslt of the fixed time line "time travel" bs is quite cliche though.  
  
but ofc the bgm et fx sont grande. the specific distopian premise, however, is very much less than desirable. (esp. the textbook change and the secret NASA part. also seems like they were advancing agriculture... where are the other research entities?)  
  
Also it was never explained then who/how the worm hole was placed at Saturn.  
  
"park on a driveway and drive on a parkway"  
  
  
  
  
  
#TAG SCORE: **5**{: style:"color:yellow; font-size:50px;"}  
