---  
layout: review  
title: "吴清源 (2006)"  
date: 2015-09-22  
---  
  
#TAGS:  
informative  
inspiring  
secrets of life  
thought provoking thinking  
emotional resonance  
empathy and sympathy  
  
fresh perspective  
layered meaning (good for over-thinking/multiple viewing)  
  
excellent camera work  
immersive atmosphere  
beautiful scenes  
transcendent use of color and/or shadow  
fitting soundtrack  
  
#COMMENTS:  
  
This is a great watch-it-yo-self research film (read about 20+ wikipedia type articles online and paused the film more than 10 times). The mood of the film and use of silence is perfect, provided that you have a way to access the background biographical stories readily. The reserach gave me now a much more integral understanding of the sino-japanese tension/relation around WWII (and the game of Go especially in Japn around the same time), through an almost tangent yet extremely descriptive viewport.  
  
吴清源 his life itself is rather fascinating. How a go player have with the first noble prize winning japanese author, who in turn relates to many crucial movements and people in japanese politics... etc.  
  
the scene of resonance happens when Go asks wether 木谷(I think) he will have to go to china on conscription duty.  
  
Despite the apparent lack of "talent," I do find his situation very relatable. When he pauses when elder suggests citizenship change. When he rushes out from the signature. When he asks her mother if he had to leave. When he thank the army doctor after the examination. and bear foremost importance, whenever he pounders upon the difficulties of persuing a uniting and calm simple life... in search of the Truth... (of course I am on a very different path with regard to this subject. "blame" Plato and my personal bias on shapes.)  
  
minor cultural artifect: seems to exhibit the habital patriachy from time to time. Not sure if realism or directorial effects.  
  
  
  
  
  
#TAG SCORE: **34**{: style:"color:yellow; font-size:50px;"}  
