---  
layout: review  
title: "Lucifer (2015)"  
date: 2016-04-12  
---  
  
#TAGS:  
silly humor  
discriminating humor  
physical comedy  
funny  
stupid  
  
inspiring  
thought provoking thinking  
empathy and sympathy  
  
immersive atmosphere  
  
expected outcome  
acceptable suspense (developments predicted minutes before)  
exceptional suspense (developments not predicted)  
  
realistic effects  
  
#COMMENTS:  
  
boy ol' boy here goes another tv review.  
  
so I was a bit upset when "Forever" went off air last year, but now here's a better replacement! Not only undying but with powers and invincible!  
  
I was not familiar with the existance of the biblical side of the DC comics (although I had tried to read Paradise Lost last year), but this is a pleasant surprise. The topics lurking underneath are far more applicable and subtle than the usual superhero genre.  
  
What really grabbed my attention to write these passages is in episode 2 the "lesson" we learned is in a sense about impotence and its cousins, a subject I am forced to think more frequently than usual in light of the second coming of my graduate school application "mishaps."  
  
what I concluded before this show was that impotence is fundamentally what drives anger. The inability to apply change really incites something deeply sinister, and that desire to destruct is precisely what can prove that "I am a big boy" and I can do such and such.  
  
Quite a while back at Prof. Starbird's house, a few of us fellow enchanted by the magic of mathematics had also discovered the tendency for difficulties that amalgamated a people of great variety of background and skill to the yoga of minds.  
  
But now I can truly establish some kind of positive link to both observations, inspired by the ending scenes of this almost formulaic episode of entertainment. And that is the desire to overcome difficulties is exactly an attempt to overcome an impotency. In fact, what we who enjoy intellectual struggles are the ones that try. and the existence of obstacles and impotencies are justly what makes a mortal human life interesting. Without which, everything would become dull and boring and (even more) pointless. So trying, a.k.a. giving one's maximal effort in attempting to achieve some goal, is the best attitude if interestingness is the objective function that one is hoping to maximize.  
  
  
  
  
  
#TAG SCORE: **15**{: style:"color:yellow; font-size:50px;"}  
