---  
layout: review  
title: "El Mariachi (1992)"  
date: 2016-05-18  
---  
  
#TAGS:  
silly humor  
physical comedy  
  
informative  
inspiring  
uplifting  
incorrect physics/sciences/engr  
secrets of life  
memorable quotes  
thought provoking thinking  
emotional resonance  
empathy and sympathy  
  
fresh perspective  
this is pointless (either I can't find a point or I disagree whole-heartedly)  
did not get it  
cliché message  
layered meaning (good for over-thinking/multiple viewing)  
multiple good interpretations  
  
excellent camera work  
immersive atmosphere  
ethereal cinematography  
beautiful scenes  
transcendent use of color and/or shadow  
fitting soundtrack  
  
expected outcome  
unexpected outcome  
unacceptable suspense (developments predicted too early)  
acceptable suspense (developments predicted minutes before)  
exceptional suspense (developments not predicted)  
intricate storyline (what the fuck just happened? have to read elsewhere or re-watch)  
some characters lacking development  
  
intense action  
realistic effects  
  
#COMMENTS:  
  
finally got to see this indie gem. I still can get over how great the camera works are given its budget. Can't say I can do anything of this caliber with $7000 adjusted for inflation and better tech of today.  
  
The composition is however a tad bit too cartoonish for the plot. When the scenes get intense, I could see his "bedhead"'s shadow. Also had a lot of trouble with the fact that those two guys shot each other... I can buy him being fast enough to not get shot, but ... Also I suppose for this to be realistic, Mexico must be an even tougher place to grow up in then I thought. Dude picked up a semi and just shot many people to death at not exactly point blank range (in the colloquial sense of the phrase).  
  
But then again, such humour might be exactly the coping mechanism that come of a rough society as portrayed. Given the two bosses, despite the disgreement, really don't care about the difference between 6 dead or 10 gone.  
  
by the way, LOOOOOOOOOve the drema sequences.  
  
why did he go back to the motel? clearly they were in cohuts as he heard the consierge yell "no room 10"  
  
it's super nice of the gangsters to not kill him when they figured out he's not blue (Azul). The guy did see him kill 2+ of his men. But I suppose they are really just his boss' men.  
  
The ending is great. Of course when a gun is pointed, narcissit's pawns would only get out of the way.  
  
I guess the ending is darker and more meaningful than I thought. On top a nice little thriller, it's a story of an ordinary man who wants to follow his ancestor's path and finds a little love got utterly disappointed by the gringo mobster.  
  
  
  
  
  
#TAG SCORE: **36**{: style:"color:yellow; font-size:50px;"}  
