---
layout: review
title: "Unbreakable-(2000)"
date: 2014-05-04
---

#TAGS:
thought provoking thinking
empathy and sympathy

fresh perspective

immersive atmosphere

unexpected outcome
acceptable suspense (developments predicted minutes before)

untraceable (natural) acting
dramatic acting

#COMMENTS:

a solid but not too crazy twist ending. good hints all along (i'm the opposite, strong desire to follow up), but the reasoning really don't work too well. the real talent is more like ability to "see" the evil rather than being unbreakable.

all the evil deeds are explained badly or not at all, which is rather unsatisfying. the orange garbage killer sounds so flat and the writer don't even bother building a reason. "I like your home, can I come in? no? stab" what the actual fuck. sounds like the booty warrior except replace sexual desire to random home invasion that kills somebody but not the kids and keep drinking and go to work like normal and don't get rid of bodies.

And the glass man's hope at finding a superhero through the means of mass terrorism is reallly shallow and simple-minded. no thought is put into what happens after he finds this hypothetical hero. So what, he can save people around him slowly and that justifies for his massive manslaughter? what the actual fuck. extremely unexplainable initiative. how can he motivate himself if not for the pleasure of killing? but then why would he help david in discovering his guilty? super cluttered motives. wouldn't that be high-functioning sociopath and get committed? what'bout ya mama? now she'gonn'be so sad and angry and disappointed.





SCORE:
14
